Ever get that feeling when you’ve been sitting a long time and suddenly stand up—you sometimes feel dizzy from low blood pressure?

Well, over the past 7 years, I’ve been using the concept of equal breathing, finding the equilibrium between full and half-full. It has the potential to expand the mind beyond expectation, though subtle at first. The change has been profound.

When I was 22, on vacation, I was taken to hospital after having serotonin syndrome from a herbal tea I was enjoying too much. Disoriented, I woke up on the hospital bed and got such a fright I ran—ripping out the IV drip—and headed through the passages. I ran for the entrance and into the parking lot, chased by security guards. By the entrance next to the road, I saw all these men with batons coming towards me.

Feeling threatened, I picked up a bottle lying on the side of the curb, broke it, and held only the jagged bottle neck—ready for action. But 9 men surrounded me, all hitting at the same time, aiming only for my head! I counted 48 blows before I lost my balance. Being dragged by the wrists, drifting in and out of consciousness, I was transferred to a psychiatric hospital, where I remember seeing my girlfriend before I was forced into a cell.

The last image I had was my girlfriend’s horrified, shocked look. I tried to jump inside the cell to look through the iron mesh above the door to tell her I loved her, but she had been escorted away before I could say anything. I collapsed to the floor, laying my head sideways, seeing only concrete floor and walls and a half-metre-high concrete slab for a bed. The security came in laughing, took all my clothes off, and left me there.

I didn’t feel the cold or mind the impending darkness. The thought that this was the end seemed like a relief, yet a terrifying notion. Feeling my spirit slipping from my body, I tried my best to feel my fingers and make them bend—just to make sure I didn’t lose consciousness. But a few hours later, in the dark, I had no choice but to let go and surrender my fate into the hands of my Creator.

It came as a surprise to awaken the next morning with the sun shining on my face through the small mesh window in the wall. I couldn’t believe I was alive and not in a coma. My head hurt real bad; my left eye had sunken into my head from the head trauma, leaving me somewhat brain damaged and speechless. It’s taken 7 years to recover, but sometimes I’m still reminded by the memories of human physical violence. To be traumatised and left in a cold dark place is not something I could ever wish upon another.

Two days later, my girlfriend came to see me and cried when she saw me. My left eye was still sunken in and looked lifeless, with my head still swollen all over. She had brought me some magazines, but I couldn’t tolerate bright colours at all—they seemed far too intense and overbright. Not to mention everything was a blur.

The following day, I was transferred to another psychiatric facility, armed with only a pocket version of Psalms and the New Testament. This time I was put into a large room with 32 other patients and given medication and shown my bed. I put my pocket Bible in my pillow and decided to lay on my back.

The medication they gave me started to kick in and was quite an unpleasant experience. While laying with my eyes closed, and patients running over me and my bed screaming and shouting, I decided to pray. Suddenly I perceived a large geometric shape around myself and realised it was a representation of my energy field. Instinctively I felt safe and knew I would not be affected by the madness surrounding me.

Before passing out, the need for the bathroom compelled me to get up. Feeling intoxicated was an understatement. I saw the entrance to the toilet and started walking towards it—or so I thought—and bam! I smashed my face into the wall. Quite shocked and horrified, I continued to crawl to where I could relieve myself, and then made a long crawl back to my bed, climbed up, and finally passed out without a care in the world.

You know like when you’re sleeping at your best, lucidly aware of your dream, and suddenly you’re forced to open your eyes? That sudden sunken feeling—you’re back, and you wish you could have stayed in that dream? Well, that’s how I woke up the next morning: dreaming I was by the ocean, relaxing with a gentle swim in a rock pool, and suddenly ripped from dreamworld. I woke up crashing onto the floor.

“Get up! Get up!” the staff were yelling, bright lights shining from above. Totally disoriented, I continued to follow the other patients, not having a clue what we’d be doing next. It was dark, and while moving through the corridors, I noticed the time to be just past 4 in the morning.

The realisation that struck me next terrified me: being the only white person amongst the other 32 patients, and having to strip down all my clothes and climb in a shower with 12 other patients in a 1m x 2m space, rubbing against each other, seemed somehow worse than the dark concrete cell I had found myself in a few days ago.

The soap they used was terrible, leaving me dry and very itchy, but I was grateful to return to my bed and decided to meditate for a while, knowing there was breakfast coming as the smell of coffee and porridge filled the air.

Fortunately, I’ve tasted Heaven before living in Hell, and realised it’s just a state of mind.